Stanford University.
>> So we are now heading to
the crucial end phase of the semester,
so I guess we're now at
the start of week nine.
So first of all if I just
do sort of reminders.
Obviously everyone should keep working
on their final projects- assignment 4s.
A couple of just notes on that.
So on Thursday we're just going to
talk about dynamic memory networks.
While they are only one of several ways
that you could go about approaching
assignment 4.
They'll certainly be relevant material
if you are doing assignment 4 because,
it's an instance of the kind of
architectures of sort of attention based
architectures that people can use for
tasks like the reading comprehension
question/answering, like the squad
data sets, so watch out for that.
We've been trying to keep money
in people's Azure accounts,
actually a Microsoft rep Kristine is here
right now if you need to pester her.
[LAUGH] Pester her about any problems, and
you're certainly contact us on
Piazza if they're any issues, and
we've been trying to be proactive
at keeping things restocked.
I know it's slightly frustrating if you go
out of money and it then locks you out and
we need to reset it, but
we're doing our best.
Okay, and it's great that there are now
lots of people that are clearly very
actively using it and doing stuff.
And that's super, we are very
pleased to see that all happening.
Okay, then for assignment four, so for
the assignment four submissions,
we're doing submissions on CodaLab,
which is conveniently tied
right into Azure as well.
And so for assignment four
we've set up a leaderboard,
at least when I looked this morning it
only had one submission from Chris, and
the people who set up the leaderboard.
And they were only getting 2% on squad,
so if you can get higher than 2%
on squad at least temporarily you
could be top of the leaderboard.
[LAUGH] And so
I hope people can try that out.
And so, a couple of
Percy Liang's RAs have been very
actively working at helping
us out of doing this
CodaLab-Azure integration for
using an assignment four.
So big thank you to Percy and his RAs.
And so,
they've also made a couple of videos on
how to use CodaLab that
there's short videos.
There was an announcement about it on
Piazza, so have a look about those.
Okay so, then moving right along for
today's lecture, so
for today's lecture,
I'm gonna talk about coreference.
So when we did the mid quarter survey,
one of
the things that a whole bunch of people
complained about was that, we actually
weren't doing much linguistics and
natural language content in this class.
So today, it's getting a little bit
late since it's the start of week nine.
I've actually got a try to have
some more linguistic content
in the first half before going back
to deep learning models for the same.
I think that sort of comment
in the mid-quarter evaluations
was completely fair because the reality
was in the first half of the class.
It really was sort of just about all
deep learning models all the time.
I mean, I'm not sure I've yet worked out
the perfect solution to that because
the fact of the matter was we kind
of felt when organizing the class.
That we were sort of on this treadmill
where we had to get through more stuff in
time for our next assignment.
And so that is what it is, but over
the last couple of weeks, we'll try and
have a bit more NLP
content as we go along,
Coreference Resolution is
an instance of a task.
And it's really the only one that we're
going to look at in any depth here.
Where we're working on
a larger level of a text so
that we're not longer just trying to
look at an individual sentence and say,
what's the subject and the object and
parsing or is this a company name.
Where we're trying to make
sense of a bigger text and
work out what's going on about that.
And it's not the entirety of
understanding long text but
it's sort of one of the most prominent
things you need to do as you go along.
So when we're doing coreference
resolution, the first thing that we're
doing is working out all the mentions in
the piece of text so that pieces of text,
basically noun phrases that refer
to some entity in the world.
And then once we've got those,
we're trying to find
the ones that refer to the same
real world entity that co-refers.
So there's one set them here
which co-refer in this example
to Barack Obama and
then there's another set,
which are these ones here, and they're
the ones that co-refer to Hillary Clinton.
Okay so
that's our task of coreference resolution,
and so I thought next we could just go
through, really get a sense of what
goes on in coreference resolution,
of go through an example text.
And this is where I signal to these guys
here to flip me over to my other screen.
Look at that!
Okay, so here's our example text done,
this is from a short story,
story by Shruthi Rao called, The Star.
Now, I have to admit,
since this isn't a literature class,
I actually made some little cuts and
edits to this story so
I could more easily fit it in
a larger font size on my slide.
So the text is slightly mangled but
it's basically part of the story,
so what have we got here when we do this,
right?
So first of all,
we have the named entities,
which is precisely what you were
finding in assignment three, right?
So we have Vanaja, and Akhila, and
there's Akhila, and
there's Prajwal, Akash,
Lord Krishna, He is a named entity, Akash.
So we've got all of those, but
then we have a lot of other kinds
of phrases that refer in the text.
And the second prominent category
is that we have pronouns.
So there's they and there's she.
There's this one thats a pronoun,
that's kind of a special pronoun, herself.
And there's she and him.
And she, she, it, it.
then I admit, I noticed I missed at
least one of the named entities,
there's another named entity.
And there are probably other
things I've missed, so
you can tell me what I've missed.
Okay, so
those are both prominent categories, but
that's not all there is,
there's really a third category.
Which are then things
that are mentions but
are done with common nouns so that they're
neither pronouns or named entities.
So that's something like the local park,
well, there's her son is such an example,
the same school, the preschool play.
So there's sort of, you get an interesting
thing is you get embedded ones.
So the preschool play is in reference
of a mention of an entity, but
inside that there's the preschool,
which is another mention of an entity.
Okay so there is the naughty child,
a tree, the best tree, a brown T-shirt,
brown trousers, the tree trunk,
a large cardboard cut out.
Okay, then there is a circular opening,
there are red balls.
So they are those ones and
then there are some other things that are
common noun phrases and it's not quite so
clear whether they're actually
mentions of anything in the world.
So there's a couple of years.
Is that a mention of
anything in the world?
Not quite so clear.
And then there's this,
a tree's foliage which
doesn't really seem like it's referring
to anything concrete in the world.
So there are various
complicated cases like that.
And in particular, there's another one of
those more complicated cases at the end,
which I'll maybe come back to later,
this, the nicest tree.
Okay, but somehow we work out
what all our mentions are.
And then, the task we want to do is to
start to then work out which ones corefer.
For a start, there's then Vanaja here.
Then, what's the next thing
that refers to Vanaja?
Her, yes.
So this is her, which I guess I forgot
to mark when I was marking the pronouns.
So embedded in the MP, her son, so again,
you can get mentions and
side mentions, there's that her.
Is there anything else that is coreferent?
She, okay, so there's that she there.
And then the next one is, herself.
Right, and so
here we have these reflexive pronouns.
And so reflexive pronouns are kind
of special because they always
corefer very closely back to
each other as in that example,
she resigned herself.
Okay, so there's she again.
Then she made, she attached.
So that goes right through.
Ok, so then we have.
Now we have Akhila, which is Akhila.
Sometimes you just get names
being repeated as names.
Are there other things
that corefer with Akhila?
Maybe not.
Note that this is kind of part
of how it's tricky, right?
Because well here at the beginning,
we have the names of two women.
Akhila's name is actually
repeated in the second sentence.
But somehow we have to understand
enough of the text beyond that
to understand that all these
other references to a she and
a her aren't referring to Akhila at all,
they're all referring to Vanaja.
So we have these two entity chains, and
then we have some more entity chains.
So if we go to the next one, the local
park, that one is just a singleton.
Nothing else refers,
I believe, to the local parks.
There's something for
a lot of background mentions,
things have just been mentioned once and
never repeated.
And so then we have Prajwal,
who sort of appears twice here.
Like, there's Akhila's son which is sort
of a descriptive term and then his name,
Prajwal, so that's generally
referred to as apposition.
So we get two mentions of him right there.
And then where else is Prajwal appearing?
Well, one's his name is right here.
Are there other places
that Prajwal appears?
Okay, so here's a complicated one.
There is this they which
refers to two people, right?
That refers to Prajwal and Akash.
So that's a phenomenon,
maybe I'll start putting Akash in as well.
So we have this phenomenon here of
when you have split antecedents.
So you can have a plural they that's
referring back to two things that
are disassociated with each other, they're
just discontinuous in different places.
When we start looking at co-ref algorithms
that NLP people use a bit later,
one of the embarrassing things that
you will notice is that the standard
algorithms that we use just can't
handle this kind of split antecedents.
That you're looking at a mention and
you're trying to decide what to make it
coreferent to, and
you just can't get ones like that right.
So that's a bit of embarrassing but
that's the current state of
natural language processing.
What else is coreferent to Prajwal?
Okay, we'll go on.
So Akash appears a lot.
We have Akash, Akash,
him, Akash.
Okay so, he goes through all the tree.
So what other entities are there
that occur multiple times here?
The tree, okay.
If you think about it,
there's definitely here a tree, but
if you think about it which of these
things count as mentions in the real
world, and which one do you want to deem
this coreferent, is actually tricky.
If you just half look at it,
you just think, okay,
anytime I see the word tree in a noun
phrase, I'm just gonna say all of those
coreferent with each other, but
that doesn't actually seem to be right.
Cuz when it was here,
Akash was to be a tree,
that's not talking about any specific
tree that's referred in the world,
that's some intentional description.
She resigned herself to make Akash
the best tree that anybody had ever seen.
Again, that doesn't seem to be
referring to any particular tree that's
extant at any time,
that's some kind of descriptive text.
On the other hand, when it's gone down
to she bought him a brown T-shirt and
brown trousers to represent the tree,
this is now,
it's an abstract tree costume obviously.
But that actually seems to be a real tree
that's a thing in the will that you can
point at.
So, that's a real thing and then, well
what about when it says a tree's foliage?
Is that referring to that
tree that she's building?
Kind of a little bit unclear.
But by the time it says,
she attached red balls to it.
That's clearly a reference to
the tree that she's making and
it's a good clear one.
But then the last sentence says,
it truly was the nicest tree.
So for that one, the it is clearly again,
referring to the tree
that she's constructed.
So that one is clear.
The question is what to
do about the nicest tree.
And, to be honest, if like for
various other NLP tasks for
co-reference resolution,
people have constructed data
sets where people have essentially done
what I'm trying to do live in front of you
as to identify mentions and
then say which one's a co-reference.
And so what we have here for something
like it truly was the nicest tree.
The nicest tree is referred
to as a predicate nominal.
So it's something in the form
of a noun phrase, but
it's actually a property that is
being predicated of the subject.
It is the nicest tree.
And so
some of the data sets that people use for
co-reference, they declare
predicate nominals like this
to be co-referent to the subject and
therefore it would be purple.
But there's kind of an argument
that that's actually just wrong and
the predicate nominal is actually kind of
a descriptive property of the nicest tree
and it's not actually
referent to anything.
And so then it wouldn't be
what you're wanting to do.
But I'll leave my purple there for
the moment, okay.
Are there any other interesting
things I should comment on?
There's obviously more things
that we haven't done yet.
I could choose a different color.
So there's,
Yeah, so I mean, there are obviously lot's
of other things that are mentioned that
aren't in change, right?
So something like Akash's face is
a mention that's a singular mention.
There's a circular opening I guess
that's kind of an interesting one cuz
it seems like that is
an entity in the real world.
But it's an entity that's a hole in
the world as opposed to a thing that's in
the world.
So there are lots of real world
complications as to how things pan out in
co-reference, but that's sort of
an idea of that task and the problems.
Does that make sense?
Okay, I will go on from there by
sending back my person, awesome.
Okay, right, so
what we've seen from that is basically
what we're working with
is the noun phrases.
Most of them refer to
entities in the world.
There are many of them that in pairs
refer to the same entity of the world and
they're the ones we're
gonna call co-referent.
And then the other interesting
thing that's different
to what we tried to do with
named identity recognition is
that there are lots of cases in
which you get nesting, right?
So when you have CFO of Prime Corp,
that Prime Corp is a mention,
but CFO of Prime Corp is also a mention.
His pay is a mention, but
the his inside is also a mention.
And we've got another one there.
So you got lots of these nested examples.
I mean, in truth you'd get
the same thing happening also in
named identity recognition.
And some people, including a former
student of mine, Jennie Finkle,
actually looked at that.
Because there are a whole bunch of cases
that also in sort of names of things,
when you have something like
Palo Alto Utility Company,
that you have the organization,
which is Palo Alto Utility Company.
And inside that you have a location,
that's Palo Alto.
Though in general, in NER,
people just do it flat, and
you kind of lose those embedded locations.
But if you're wanting to follow along
co-reference links like John Smith, and
his pay, that you're sort of really
losing a lot in your ability to
interpret texts if you aren't dealing
with those embedded mentions.
And so normally, people do.
So co-reference resolution
is a really key task.
It's used in all sorts of places.
Essentially, anywhere where you want to
do a fuller job of text understanding,
you need to have co-reference.
So if you want to sort of understand
a story, like the story of the star,
where you definitely need to be able
to follow along the co-reference.
It helps in lots of other tasks.
So if you wanna do machine translation,
if you're doing machine translation from
one of the many languages like Turkish
that don't distinguish gender in pronouns.
And you want to then translate into say,
English and it does have gender.
Then what you need to do is follow along
the co-reference chains to be work
out which ones should be he and
which ones should be she.
It's been observed and
complained about by a number of people
recently that current MT
systems don't do that.
If you take Turkish and you translate into
English, everything comes out male, sorry.
That's a state of NLP on that.
So text summarization,
including things like web snippets right,
if you're trying to cut out sort of
a little snippet to put on web results.
And it contains a pronoun in it, it would
be much cleverer if you could replace
it with its reference so
its interpretable.
And then also tasks like information
extraction, relation extraction,
question answering.
This doesn't apply to the squad
task the way it's formulated,
but a lot of the time we have questions
like, who married Claudia Ross in 1971?
And you start searching the text for
the answer to that question.
And you say, yeah,
I found the right place to look.
Here's the sentence.
He married Claudia Ross in 1971.
And you're sure you've got the answer
if only you could work out what he
was co-referent to and that's why
you need co-reference resolution.
So when we've made all of these
attempts to link things together,
I'll just explain now how we go about
evaluating co-reference resolution.
So effectively co-referenced scoring
it's kind of like clustering.
And basically any metric that people
have used for cluster evaluation,
people have also tried to use
the co-reference resolution.
And so the one that we're gonna emphasis
in today's lecture is one called B cubed,
which is one of the widely used
clustering evaluation metrics.
So what you have here I mean, I've
sort of just duplicated on both sides.
So I can show you precision, recall, is so
the colors of my little balls
are the gold answers of what's correct.
And then the circles that I've drawn
around it is how my system has
decided to gather things that
it thinks its co-reference.
And so what you do for
the B cubed metric is you sort of
align system clusters and
the gold clusters.
So I've chosen to align this system
cluster with the blue color here,
which I've shown by that
black around the circle.
And then I say, okay, well of the things
that I put in my system cluster,
what is the precision
of what I put in there?
And well, it turns out that four out
of the five of them are blue and
one of them is pink.
And so I say my precision is 4 5ths For
this cluster.
Then I do it the other way around,
and I work out a recall.
So I say, well, I aligned the blue
things with this system cluster.
And, well, actually,
this system cluster only contains
four out of the six blue things.
So my recall for that alignment is
then four-sixths or two-thirds.
And I'm gonna put those
together in an F measure and
that's then going to give
me the B cubed measure.
And so that's sort of the main idea.
It's just a little bit
more complex than that.
I mean, first of all, obviously I want
to do it not only with that cluster.
I also want to align this
cluster with the oranges and
say they're precision recall one,
cuz they're completely correct.
And this cluster and the pinks,
and then I wanna say precision,
four sixths and recall, four fifths.
So there are a couple of other tricks.
One is that you're weighting
the different precisions and
recalls based on the size of the clusters.
So, it matters more to get high
precision on really big clusters.
The other bit that I sort of slightly
glossed over is I said, well, you align
these system found clusters
with a gold cluster.
And as you might know
from some other class,
in the general case if you're
doing a bipartite alignment, or
things of that sort,
that's actually an NP-hard problem.
So it's sort of almost impossible
to guarantee that you've found
the optimal B-CUBED score.
So normally, what you're
actually finding in your system
is sort of a lower bound on
a possible B-CUBED score.
But in practice, provided your system is
reasonably good, it's fairly easy and
a greedy manner to start aligning
together system clusters and
gold clusters,
starting with the ones that you did best.
And in practice, there's greedy
matching software that's used for
B-CUBED, which seems to nearly always
work and give you the right answer.
And so that hasn't been
a huge problem in practice.
That's only one measure that's
been used for coreference.
There are a whole bunch of
other ones that have been used.
Most of which relate to
clustering algorithms,
evaluations that people
have used elsewhere.
Okay, so before getting to the halfway
point, I then want to say just a little
bit more about what goes on in coreference
from sort of a linguistic point of view.
And this is actually
a little bit interesting and
hasn't actually been much
dealt with by NLP systems.
So what kinds of things do we have?
So we have referring expressions,
so things that directly refer,
like John Smith, as named entities or
the President as common nouns.
We then have things that aren't
directly referring, but or
sort of variables that
are contingent on something else.
And there ones that are free variables.
So his pay,
that's sort of a free variable, but
it's reference is dependent
on the reference of Smith.
And then we have these reflexives,
the bound variables which are sort of
closely connected with something nearby.
And so in linguistic theory most of
the work is dealt with these variables and
trying to interpret what they
are going to be coreferent with.
Whereas, in doing practical
coreference of a real text,
there's quite a lot of pronouns.
But a lot of the actions was actually
dealing with these proper noun and
common noun referring expressions.
And it turns out in practice,
getting these guys right is actually
harder than getting these guys right,
which is sort of interesting.
So things to notice.
Not all noun phrases are referring.
So, if we have every dancer twisted her
knee, her knee does not refer to anything
because it's sort of embedded under
this quantifier of every dancer.
That's perhaps more clearly seen
if you look at the second example.
No dancer twisted her knee.
There's no her knee being talked about,
right?
So that's a clearly
non-referring noun phrase.
Okay, and similarly,
no dancer isn't a noun phrase
that refers to any dancer either.
So in linguistics,
people normally distinguish two relations.
So one of them is coreference,
which is when two mentions refer
to the same entity in the world.
And that has nothing to do
with the structure of text.
And the other one is
a relation of anaphora,
which is a textual relation when a term,
the anaphor,
refer gains reference with respect
to another term, the antecedent.
So you're using it for its interpretation.
So if you go back to Greek roots,
an anaphor meant that you had
this word whose interpretation
was dependent on something
that preceded it in the text.
And so anaphora was distinguished
from the opposite relationship,
which was called Cataphora,
where you actually
had a dependent term that was dependent
on something after it in the text.
So here's a lovely example of
Cataphora from Oscar Wilde.
From the corner of the divan of Persian
saddle-bags on which he was lying,
smoking, as was his custom,
innumerable cigarettes.
Lord Henry Wotton cold just catch
the gleam of the honey-sweet and
honey-colored blossoms of a laburnum.
This is a Laburnum,
in case you were wondering.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So this is a beautiful example of
cataphora, because the referential
noun phrase is Lord Henry Wotton.
And then both he and his then cataphors
on the following Lord Henry Wotton.
Again, it turns out in nearly all of our
NLP systems, we never try and do this.
So we're always coming across mentions and
then we're trying to assign
them to something before them.
So we always treat them as
backward looking anaphora.
So we'd be actually hoping to say this
he doesn't refer to anything before it.
And then we'd be, later on, saying Lord
Henry Wotton is coreferent with the he.
But that's actually sort of linguistically
bad and doesn't make terribly much sense.
So a lot of the time, things that
are anaphoric are coreferencial
because the textural
dependence is one of identity.
So an anaphor is coreferencial
with its antecedent.
But that's not always true, either.
So you have things, anaphoric relations
that aren't identity relationships and
then they're not coreferential.
And so here's an example of this.
We went to see a concert last night.
The tickets were really expensive.
So the tickets here is an anaphor that's
dependent on reference to this antecedent.
Because it's meaning that the tickets for
the concert were really expensive.
But it's not an identity relationship, so
those are referred to
as bridging anaphors.
And there's been a little NLP work on
trying to interpret bridging anaphors,
but extremely little.
For most of the coreference systems,
a concert is a mention of an entity.
The tickets are a mention of an entity.
And you just don't learn
the relationship between them.
Okay, so there are really
kind of two different things.
So you can have anaphoric
relationships in the text which may or
may not imply (co)reference,
90% of the time they do but
not always, and then you have
(co)referential relationships with two
things in the text referred to
the same thing in the world.
But that may just be because they
refer to the same thing in the world.
There isn't necessarily any textual
dependence relationship between them, and
so something that you might like to think
about is maybe those two phenomenas should
actually be handled somewhat differently
in our models, and the truth is for
most of the models we build at the moment
they're really not handled differently.
You could hope if you crossed your
fingers really hard, that somehow the way
our neural network model works
will end up treating the pronouns,
which are normally anaphors, sort of
differently to the way it's treating You
know the various mentions of a cache which
were just (co)reference relationships but
you know sort of a crush your
fingers really hard there's nothing
really that model structure that's sort of
really distinguishing these two notions.
Okay, so on the second half of getting to
say how we build (co)reference systems but
before we do that we're onto
the research highlight and
James is going to talk about that.
So, hello everyone.
Today's research highlight will be
summarizing source code using a neural
attention model.
This paper was published in ACL 2016,
and its by authors from
University of Washington, Computer Science
and Engineering Department.
So the main task in a dataset that
they define is to generate sentences
that describe C# and SQL queries, and
they use a dataset from StackOverflow.
Essentially, what they do is they
just query the whole dataset for
all the posts that have tags that have C#,
SQL or Database, or Oracle in them.
Well, as you would expect,
just doing this naively doesn't work
very well because there's lots and
lots of noise in the dataset.
So one of the cleaning sets that they do
beforehand is to remove all the posts
where the question and
the text doesn't actually have any
relevance with the content of the code.
For example like people often ask
questions about codes such as like how can
I make these code run faster and
in that sense that won't be
a very good summary at all.
A second thing that they do in order to,
a more technical thing that they do is
they actually try to parse the code
in the sense that like a lot of
code contains like literals, they have
specific variable names Things like this,
which are not very general, like general
systems, to try to summarize code, and
what they do in this case is they actually
replace literals with their types.
They also replace the table and
column names with something more generic,
and then they also remove in-line
comments in order to make the system
less reliant on those things.
And two examples of the code are shown
on the side, where one is C# code for
getting the whiff of a text block in
some view, I think, and the second
is source code for SQL where you're
trying to get the second largest element.
Okay.
And specifically, like they define two
tasks that they're actually going to try
to attempt, and these are to generate
text, specifically a sentence
to describe some code sequence
that maximizes a scoring function.
A second task is the information
retrieval task, which is to go through,
essentially their corpus, and
find the code snippet that most
closely relates to the input question,
which would in a natural language.
The scoring function is shown to the side.
It's essentially the product of
the next word probabilities, and
these are proportional to what
the output that we get from their model,
which takes into account
the hidden states of the LSTM and
also some attention on the source code.
Specifically, here's an example of how
they generate their text using their
model which they call CODE-NN.
You feed in some starting token and
then you make some form of prediction
based on the attention and based on
the LSTM to get on the next word, N1,
and then you keep doing
this iteratively again and
again, and this is how they
generate their full sequence.
So to evaluate their system, they did,
first on the text generation side they
compared against, well they used existing
MT metrics such as METEOR and BLEU, and
they took some existing translation
system and information retrieval baseline
system called Moses which is a phrase
based translations system and
then on a previous model
that also know that and
they found that their models get higher
scores on essentially METEOR and
BLEU and then they also did
something that's a user study,
where they got five people, and
they had them rank the result.
Like manually score the results,
in terms of naturalness, which is how well
does the sentence actually read,
in terms of fluency and informativeness.
In terms of how much of the content
of the code was actually captured
by the summary, and
they found that their model unsurprisingly
does better than existing approaches.
And then their information retrieval
task they use a metric called
Mean Reciprocal Rank, and they compared
against some existing previous papers and
existing baseline out there.
So what's more interesting is the actual
example outputs that the model generates.
Here's an example of a C# code which is to
add children to some tree node, and
in particular, this is C#, so
treenode is actually part of a TreeView,
and in this case,
CODE-NN actually gets pretty close,
where they recognize that these tree
nodes are related to tree views but
it doesn't quite get the idea that you're
trying to add instead of get them all.
On the second example where the CODE-NN
actually got the right result is this
query where we're trying to select
random rows from a table and
CODE-NN actually get's it exactly.
Cool, and that's all.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Okay,
so now for the remaining 40 minutes,
it's now algorithms to try and
do (co)reference resolution,
and so I guess for
about the first 15 minutes, I'm gonna
sort of say something about sort of
the history of ways of doing
(co)reference resolution,
anaphora resolution in general, and just
the sort of space and traditional methods.
And then sort of for the last 25 minutes
I'm gonna talk about one particular
way of doing it which is actually
from a paper that Kevin Clark did.
The most famous thing in the space
of (co)reference resolution,
actually just an algorithm for
determining the pronominal
anaphora resolution, working out.
What, you know, he, him,
she, hers, its, refer to
is an algorithm that was proposed
by a long time ago by Jerry Hobbs,
which these days is normally
referred to as the Hobbs' Algorithm.
But actually in Jerry Hobbs' paper he
refers to as the naive algorithm for
a reason that I will explain in a minute.
And so this algorithm,
I'm not gonna read through it,
it's a complex mechanistic procedure for
deciding what a pronoun refers to.
So you begin at the noun phrase, so it's
assuming a syntactic pass of the sentence,
begin at the noun phrase
immediately above the pronoun.
Go up the tree to the first NP or S.
Call this X, and the path p.
Traverse all branches below X,
to the left, blah, blah, blah, and
this is in all of it.
It keeps on going on the next page,
and it's got go-tos, go to step 4.
So, the sort of
embarrassing thing is that,
not in the system I'm gonna
present at the end part of class.
But if you look at the sort of
machine learning approaches to
co-reference resolution that
were done in the 2000s and
the first half of the 2010s, nearly all
of them used this algorithm as a feature.
So if you had a regular
statistical classifier,
you can take any kind of
little sub routine and
sort of put its judgment in as a feature,
into your logistic regression.
And it turned out that what this
calculated was sort of a useful enough
approximation to getting out most
likely anaphoric relationships out of
syntactic trees.
That most machine learning
systems use this and
got value out of that as a feature.
So here's the kind of idea
of how it was meant to work.
So "Niall Ferguson is a prolific
well-paid and a snappy dresser.
Stephen Moss hated him." Okay,
so here's a him and
you're wanting to work out
what that's co-referent to.
And so you start at this noun phrase here.
And so what it said was that you
started from this noun phrase and
you went up to the next S or
NP and you called that X, and
the path that you'd gone up p.
And then it says, traverse
branches below X to the left of p,
propose as antecedent any NP that
has an NP or S between it and X.
So I traverse things to the left and
I can find here a noun phrase.
But that doesn't have anything
else in between that and so,
therefore, it's not a candidate.
And so, at that point,
I'm going to be at the highest S in
the sentence and I'm gonna traverse
the parse trees of the previous
sentences in the order of recency.
And I traverse each tree left-to-right,
breadth first.
So there's a lot of stuff embedded in
this very complex mechanistic procedure.
But most of it is sort of correct, and
gets first order linguistics right.
And so what's going on here?
So what's going on here?
So when we see him,
the first thing to suspect
is maybe it refers to something to
the left in this same sentence.
But that's where the kind of linguistic
constraints on pronouns come in, right?
So that if Stephen Moss referred to him,
he couldn't of said him,
he would of needed to say himself, right,
you have to use a reflexive there.
So that's why it says,
unless there's some intervening NP or
S in between,
it's not a candidate anymore.
But precisely,
if there was a more complex sentence
structure, it would be a candidate.
So if you had something like a more
complex noun phrase in which
Stephen Moss was a modifier,
then co-reference would become possible.
So if it was something like,
Stephen Moss' brother hated him,
then it'd be possible for
him to refer to Stephen Moss, right?
And so that will be captured
because then there would an extra
NP node in between here
then it would be okay.
So that didn't work and so
we went backwards and so
then again now instead of
using software heuristics.
So the heuristics are usually right,
it said to go backwards to sentences and
order of recency.
So if the antecedent isn't
in the current sentence,
it's mostly in the immediately preceding
sentence, so you look there first.
And then it says, within the sentence,
go from left to right.
Well, what's going on there?
There's sort of an obliqueness
hierarchy in sentences.
And actually within a sentence, a subject,
which at least in English is on the left
side, is more likely to be the antecedent
than something that's an object or
an indirect object or object of
a preposition that's buried down here.
So it's saying the first thing you
should try is Niall Ferguson and so
that's then a candidate.
It doesn't get disqualified on
page two from reasons of gender or
anything like that.
And so we propose it as an answer and
the Hobbs Algorithm gets it right.
And so the Hobbs Algorithm
gets the right answer for
pronouns about 80% of the time,
it's actually pretty good.
Of course, sometimes it gets it wrong,
it's easy to come up with sentences
that won't get it right for.
So I just wanted to,
before going on, deviate for
a minute and talk about what
Jerry Hobbs was actually interested in.
So what Jerry Hobbs was actually
interested in was knowledge-based
pronominal coreference.
And so, from the early days of AI,
there's been sort of observations about
how to actually get coreference right
in many cases,
you actually have to understand sentences.
And so there was this famous
pair of sentences, which was
proposed by Terry Winograd, who until very
recently, was on the Stanford faculty.
Though he had kind of dropped out
of doing NLPN and moved onto HCI.
And so,
Terry contrasted these two sentences.
The city council refused the women
a permit because they feared violence.
And the city council refused the women
a permit because they advocated violence.
This was back in the 60s and 70s, when
there was more protests around, I guess.
So anyway, so in the first sentence,
the natural reading is
the they,
is coreferent with the city council.
And in the second sentence,
the natural reasoning with reading is
with the they being coreferent
with the woman, right?
And the crucial thing to notice is
this isn't something that the Hobbs
naive algorithm could possibly get
right cuz both of these sentences
have completely identical structure.
And so the answer that was
suggested at the time was well,
what we actually need to do is
have knowledge of the world and
being able to sort of
represent these actions, and
representing relationships
that are likely to occur.
And that we just need to know, we have to
sort of understand about city councils and
permits.
To understand that if
you're refusing a permit,
that would happen if someone
was advocating violence but
it would happen if the people
who would be getting the permit
were doing the advocation of violence.
And so this is an idea that people have
actually tried to resurrect recently.
So, Hector Levesque a good
old-fashioned AI guy.
And I guess he gave an invited talk
in 2013 where he sort of suggested,
gee, we should kind of try and get back
to these kind of Winograd sentences and
actually be trying to understand them as
interesting, co-referenced challenges.
And so people have tried to, more
recently, run a Winograd schema challenge.
So, really this is what
Jerry Hobbs was interested in.
And so actually why he
proposed his naive algorithm,
it was actually one of the first
instances of NLP when someone said, gee,
before proposing something really complex,
I should have a baseline.
So I've got a good baseline to compare
against as to how well something
simple works.
And what he discovered.
Was the kind of systems he built
couldn't possibly beat his baseline,
because trying to do knowledge-based
pronominal coreference was way too
hard for
what could be done back in the 1970s.
But this is what he wrote about it.
So he said,
the naive approach is quite good.
Computationally speaking, it will be
a long time before a semantically based
algorithm is sophisticated
enough to perform as well.
And these results set a very high standard
for any other approach to aim for.
Yet there is every reason to pursue
a semantically based approach.
The naive algorithm does not work.
Anyone can think of
examples where it fails.
In these cases it not only fails, it gives
no indication that it has failed and
offers no hope in finding
the real antecedent.
So in one sense,
since 1978 we have progress because we now
have algorithms that are significantly
better than the Hobbs' naive algorithm.
So we've passed that bar for
at least a decade, so that's a good news.
On the other hand,
Jerry Hobbs could very viably argue,
that actually the second
paragraph that I quoted there
hasn't been addressed whatsoever,
cuz we're writing.
They might have more machine learning than
them but we're writing the same kind of
mechanistic algorithms that usually get
things right, sometimes get things wrong.
And that's just how it is and
we don't really have any way
of telling when it's failing.
Okay, so how do people do coreference.
So there are different ways that people
approach the coreference problem.
So actually the most common
way of doing it is what's
referred to as mentioned pair models.
And that's what we gonna look at for
the end part of this class.
So we try and
work out all the coreference relationships
by just making a sequence
of pairwise links.
So we're gonna take pairs of mentions and
say, are these coreference or
not, yes or no.
So we're doing binary classification
decisions independently.
And then as a result of those
binary decisions we sort of
induce a kind of clustering of
mentions into entities, and
we just do that in a simple
deterministic way.
We just join everything together into
a lump that's been put together by
these binary decisions.
And we just say, and
they all close together by transitivity.
There are a couple of other
approaches that people have used for
coreference resolution.
Rather than simply doing
binary yes/no decisions,
another choice is to say that you can
actually use a ranking algorithm.
Something that's gone very prominent
in certain areas of machine learning
that you kind of don't cover in your basic
ML class, is doing ranking problems.
But they have come up in a lot of places.
Think things like,
Netflix recommending you a movie.
Google recommending you a web page,
all of those things are ranking problems.
And so you can think of coref as a ranking
problem, because if you have a pronoun,
well it should be
coreferent with something.
And maybe there are seven prior
mentions in the document.
And then you're doing a ranking task as
to which one of those seven it would be.
And then there's a third way of
doing coreference resolution,
which is arguably really the right way.
Which is, what are referred
to as entity mention models.
And that's just explicitly
think about the entities.
They're actual real entities
that your discourse is about.
And when you see a mention, you should be
saying, that's a mention of a particular
entity, or maybe this mention introduces
a new entity in to your discourse and
you've got this set of
underlying entities.
So in some sense, your entities
are your clusters or mentions, but
you're actually giving them first
class status as objects in your model
rather than them just appearing as
a result of some linking process.
And so, a number of people then tried to
work on models that explicitly represent
entities and then do some kind
of joint inference, or have some
kind of generative model of how the
mentions are created from the entities.
But the simplest case and what we're look
at mainly, are these mention-pair models.
And so mention-pair models are normally
trained to supervise learning models.
What you do is you have some data,
you have mentions.
And so there's this prior problem
of finding the mentions, but
we can roughly think of
the mentions as our noun phrases.
And then here's a He, and
what we're gonna say is that gonna
be coreferent with something.
Well, if we have gold standard data
we'll know that the right answer would
be either Mr. Obama or the president,
cuz both of them are coreferent.
And if you have multiple choices, you'd
normally just choose the nearest one.
And you say, the correct answer for
this one is the president.
And then you have negative examples which
are things that are not coreference.
So Milwaukee is a negative example.
So you get positive and
negative examples, you train
a binary classifier and you're done.
So if a conventional coref
people then used all
sorts of features,
that were indicators of coreference.
So for pronouns in English, they're things
like person, number, and gender agreement.
So Jack gave Mary a gift.
She was excited.
That has to be Mary because of gender,
rather than Jack.
There are softer notions
like semantic compatibility.
So if there's a reference
to the mining conglomerate,
that could be coreferent with the company
because that's sorta semantically
compatible, that's much harder to do.
Some things that we've already mentioned
are hard syntactic constraints.
So John bought him a new car, him can't
be John, that'd have to be himself.
So that's a feature we can use.
But there are lots of softer things
which I was mentioning before.
So, recency is a good indicator.
John went to a movie.
Jack went as well.
He was not busy.
That sort of sounds like it was probably
Jack that wasn't busy, at least to me.
And that's presumably a recency effect,
but
it's not really categorical, it has to be.
Subjects are commonly preferred.
John went to a movie with Jack.
He was not busy.
I think the most natural reading
of that is that John was not busy,
so that's preferring subjects.
Parallelism, John went
with Jack to a movie.
Joe went with him to a bar.
I think the most natural reading of that
is that that is Jack that Joe went with.
And that seems to make sense not
according to grammatical role preference,
which would give you John, but
in terms of the parallelism of the two
sentences and interpreting it that way.
So there are lot's linguistic features
that you would start to build
features from and
put them into a classifier and try and
determine coreference, and
people built these things where loosely,
they are big logistic regression
classifiers with hundreds of thousands of
features that try to capture some
of these kind of relationships.
But for the last 25 minutes
what I want to tell you then is
about what people have done with
deep learning and coreference.
And the answer to that in two words is,
not much.
And so at this point in time There
are basically four papers that have tried
to use neural networks, deep learning,
to do coreference by two authors.
So there's Sam Wiseman at Harvard
who's worked on the problem in
a couple of papers.
And then there's Kevin who's worked
on the problem in a couple of papers.
And so
there is some sort of connections and
there's some different approaches here.
I mean, in particular, there are a couple
of papers, both sorta Sam's second
paper and Kevin's first paper, which we're
both trying to do entity-mention models.
And actually try to have explicit
representations for entities and
doing more global inference
in terms of entities.
And I think most people who have tried to
do coreference a bit really do believe
that surely they should be good power from
doing things jointly over these entities
and that should give some real advantages.
In practice, it's repeatedly sort of
proven hard to get sustained advantages
from doing that and so there's sort of
been this continuing use of entity pair,
sorry, mention-pair models,
which are very simple to implement, and
you keep on thinking to work
out how to make them work well.
So Kevin's most recent paper is actually
back to a mention-pair model and
that produces great results.
And I'd thought I'd actually show that
one, not only because it's the most recent
and best, but because it might be kind of
a good chance to sort of show a couple
of other techniques of doing things,
in the context of deep learning.
Okay, so here we go, so the first couple
of bits may be fairly similar, right?
So, we wanna find these
coreference clusters.
And so we're gonna be doing it
simply as a mention-ranking model
where you want to assign a score
to each candidate antecedent.
So, we want to be saying,
what does my refer to?
And we're picking the preceding mentions,
and then we add on one extra candidate,
cuz for any mention you have one
possibility is this is a new referent in
the discourse and it's not co-referent
with anything that appears before it.
So, we then have this new up the end.
So you can say this a NEW referent.
And so for each of these mention pairs,
we're gonna build a model
that scores them.
And so, it's just gonna
score a pair of mentions for
coreference, independently still,
and give them a score.
And then what we're gonna do is say,
well, which one has the best score?
Okay, that's putting I and my together.
And so that one, we're going to rejoin.
And so then we can literally just go
through the mentions in the discourse from
left to right and
run this mention-pair classifier
on each successive mention and
sort of then assign them.
And that will give us our model.
And so then the question is,
how can we go about designing and
training a good mention-pair classifier?
Then yeah, cuz at the end of the day,
our actual set of
coreferent things will just be
the result of these local decisions.
So if we say, I as a new thing,
Nader as a new thing,
he refers to Nader,
my refers to I, she refers to my.
Then the result of that is we've
sort of constructed these two
coreferent clusters as a result
of these local decisions.
And as a result of imputing transitivity.
So we're then saying that
she is also coreferent to I.
Okay, so I hope the setting
in general is clear enough.
How is that done?
And so for
doing the neural mention-pair model,
this is being done as
a feed-forward network.
It's sort of, in some sense,
it's no more complicated than that.
But what are the parts that go into it?
So down at the bottom we
have two kinds of things.
So firstly, for both the mention and
the candidate antecedent,
we have embeddings of words.
And so this model didn't use any
kind of recurrent neural network or
something like that that
goes through the mentions.
I mean, Kevin actually experimented
with that a little bit and
found no particular value in it.
And so it actually kind of like
the dependency powers of Danqis
that you did in assignment two if
you remember back to that one.
And so it picks out particular words and
uses their word representations.
So it will use the head word of the
mention, the last word of the mention, and
things like that, and so that gives
you some word embedding features.
And so the word embedding features are
gonna be good for capturing similarities.
I mean, certainly when it's
just the same word, right?
They both say Akash, you'll get that.
But you hope to also get things like
conglomerate and company having similar
word representations that
you can do things with.
But there are some relationships
that that's clearly not capturing.
If you think of some of those properties
that we've already mentioned like recency
and grammatical role and things like that,
they're not being captured.
So there are also, then,
a few features that are calculated for
each mention that are also put into it.
So after that it's really
a straightforward architecture.
It's a deep feed-forward network
of sort of ReLus at every level
that take you up to the top, and then at
the top you're turning that into a score
which is a numeric score of how
likely it is to be coreferant.
Yeah, so the tradition,
compared to traditional systems,
the number of handcrafted features
is getting smaller over time,
but there are still just
the number that really help.
Distance is one that really helps.
And if you have any kind of dialogue
doing tracking of speakers and
change of speakers also really helps you,
and you don't just get for
free out of word embeddings.
Okay, users pretrained word embeddings.
I mentioned the no RNNs,
deep network, dropout.
So, that part is all
pretty straightforward.
So what's a novel more
interesting part of the model?
And so that was to say, well,
you aren't necessarily gonna do well
if you just train such a model
as a straightforward classifier.
You either got this decision right or
wrong.
You could do that but that's non
optimal and the reason why it's non
optimal is that some mistakes matter much,
much more than others.
Because even though
the mention pair classifier
is just an independent classifier
of a pair of mentions.
The reality is that as a result
of making a sequence of those
mention pair classifications,
you're then going to end up
with these clusterings of
mentions that are your entities.
And you have the quality of your
co-reference is going to be decided
by how good are those
clusters mentions that your
entities that you formed
at the end of the day.
And so what that means in particular
is that some mistakes you can
make are really bad mistakes.
So if you've started along saying
Bill Clinton coreferent with he,
Clinton coreferent with he, and
Hillary is coreferent with Clinton, her.
If you then said let's make
these two Clinton's coreferent,
that sort of collapses your.
Two partial clusterings together
into one huge hair ball.
And that sort of destroys your ability
to kind of do discourse interpretation
because you've collapsed two individuals
in your discourse into one individual.
So that's gonna really destroy you.
But there are other ways in
which you can make little errors
which don't really matter.
So, it was raining, but the car stayed
dry because it was under cover.
So this first it is what's
referred to as the pleonastic it.
That it's just not really
referential at all.
Just somehow in English
we like to have subject.
So rather than just saying it's raining
as you would in many other languages,
you say it is raining.
But it's not really referring to anything,
so It was
a mistake to make that co-reference, the
car, but it sort of doesn't really matter.
It's not gonna destroy your
understanding of the dialogue,
you've just got sort of one thing wrong.
So that's a minor error.
And so the question is couldn't
we train a model so that it's
actually sensitive to these ideas of what
a major error is and minor error is.
and the secret of that is to say Well,
that means that we can't work out
the loss simply of individual decisions.
We've gotta work out what impact those
decisions have at the end of the day.
And if you're in that situation
in which you can't locally
work out the loss of individual decisions,
but you have to wait around and
say how does things turn out later in
the day cuz I'll have to use that.
That's the space in which you need
to use reinforcement learning.
And so, that's one possibility
that this paper talks about.
So, previously people had done
something about this problem.
And I'll show you that in just
a minute which is to say, gee,
some of these decisions
are more important than others.
So we could come up with heuristics to
decide how important different things are.
And then we could For
different kinds of errors.
We can kind of set hyperparameters
to weight those kind of errors and
adjust those to maximize our performance.
And to some extent, you can do that.
But it seems like the more right and
principled way to do it would be to say,
no, this can be done,
this reinforcement learning problem.
And if we too wanna be
finding local decisions,
which lead to the end of
the day as a good clustering.
Say that our reward function for
reinforcement learning is do we a get
good clustering at the end of the day?.
And if we do that we can get rid
of having to, manually find,
things to weight and setting the weights
of them with hyper parameters.
And we can get some gains, not huge gains,
but some gains, from doing that.
So the thing that are being done
in prior work is to say, well,
there are different classes
of co-reference decisions and
their importance we might
want to weight differently.
So the mistakes you can make
is you can do a false new.
You can claim that
something is a new cluster
when really it should have been
made coreference to something.
So that's failing to cluster
when you should have.
There's a false anaphoric.
Something should have been
it's own cluster, but
you've joined it to an existing cluster.
And then there's a wrong link where you
should have been joining it with some
previously established cluster and
you chose a different one.
So these notions still don't really get
at sort of making a big scale mistake,
like the Clinton mistake,
versus small scale mistakes.
But they sort of distinguish
different decisions.
And some of these are worse than others.
So in general, doing a Wrong Link
is worse than doing a False New.
Cuz a False New doesn't thave the same
knock on effects that a Wrong Link has.
Yeah, so what prior work had said is okay,
we have these four kinds of things.
They can actually be coreferent.
And done correctly or you can make
these three different kinds of errors.
And so what we could do is
manually set weights for
these different kinds of errors and
adjust them to try and maximize our score.
And so Sam Wiseman had proposed doing
that In the kind of margin loss scenario.
So that we are taking
the maximum choice of
candidate antecedents for each mentioned.
And then here we have
the usual kind of margin loss
that we are looking at the score
difference of the model.
For the true antecedent
versus this candidate.
And they're both being
scored by a current model.
And so, again, we wanna adjust the scores
according to our model to sort of
minimize that kind of large margin loss.
But we add this one extra factor to our
loss function which we say is well,
scale how much it cost's
you to make this mistake
based on what kind of
an error you're making.
Which is sort of classifying it as
one of these different kinds errors.
Okay and so that kind of idea wasn't
actually original to Sam Weisman.
So really sort of a whole bunch of
papers really kind of just about all
the coref papers that were done in
the 2010s, had used this kind of idea.
Because there's a way to push
up coreference numbers a bit.
But it doesn't seem perfect firstly you
have to do the hyper parameter search.
And secondly those error types
are a bit correlated with badness,
but they don't seem to be very
directly correlated with badness.
And so Kevin was wanting to try and
do things better than that.
These are the ways he approached it and
he introduced two approaches.
What we can say is when
we are doing coreference,
what we're doing is we're
taking a sequence of actions.
And so each action is looking at
one mention as we head through and
choosing something as
it to be coreferent to,
where one possibility is
you are co-referent to NEW.
So you're making this sequence of actions.
So you are deciding what to do with I,
deciding what to do with Nader,
deciding what to do with he.
That these are your sequence of actions.
And so what we'd like to do is chose
the sequence of actions that maximizes
getting a good coreference
clustering at the end of the day.
So how do we decide what's
a good coreference clustering?
Well, what we do is we actually
just believe our metric.
So I showed you the BQ metric for
coreference and
that seemed kind of
sensible it was sort of
is F measure of getting your links
right and precision and recall.
So we call that our reward function.
So if you kind if you get everything
right, your BQ metric Is 100 or
a 1 depending on whether you make
it a point or make it a percentage.
And so we then have no loss and
if you make some mistakes,
we can then work out the reward for
different coreference algorithm.
The reward will then be a lower award
corresponding the b cubed score.
And so
Kevin explored two methods of doing this.
One's sort of the REINFORCE algorithm
which is the most common reinforcement
learning algorithm that's used in deep
learning techniques and elsewhere.
And then reward-rescaling.
So for the REINFORCE algorithm,
what you're doing is you're defining
a probability distribution over actions.
And the way he was doing that was
sort of taking the scores from
the mentioned pair model and
exponentiating those and normalizing them,
so sort of standard soft max function.
And saying that's the probability for
taking different actions.
And then what you're wanting
to do is work out four action
sequences with their probabilities,
you want to maximize your expected reward.
So the REINFORCE Algorithm
maximizes your expected reward.
So you're taking the expectation
over action sequences,
according to this probability distribution
and then working out the reward,
the B-cubed score,
having taken that action sequence.
The problem, is of course,
that there are sort of an, oops,
the problem is that there are an
exponential number of different action
sequences that you can take here.
And so
you can't actually explore all of them.
But what you can do is then sample
trajectories to estimate that expectation
and to approximate the gradient and
you can learn according to that.
So using the REINFORCE Algorithm for
reinforcement learning,
it basically worked.
It's sort of competitive
with the heuristic
loss functions that people had found.
But it still seemed to
have a small disadvantage,
which is that the REINFORCE Algorithm
maximizes performance in expectation but
that's not what we actually want here.
We actually want to sorta maximize
the highest scoring action sequence,
cuz that's where we're actually
gonna use in practice.
And so Kevin explored this other idea,
which is to sort of say,
let's actually continue with this idea
of incorporating rewards into the max
margin objective slack rescaling.
But instead of using these sort of
handset hyperparameters like before,
what we will do is actually we
can work out how to set those
sort of losses for
rescaling the large margin objective.
So the idea there is for
our training data,
we can actually just look at
the effect of different decisions.
So since each action is independent
from every other action,
we can change one action and
see what effect it had for the reward.
So, this is the correct set of
actions when our Reward = 100.
And so, we can just say for AI there,
suppose we made that decision differently,
suppose we had said AI then
declared that mention to be NEW.
Well, we can just say this is what our
system returned what's the B-cubed
score for that?
And the answer is 85, and so
our Regret = 15 because we could have
gotten the right answer and 100.
And then we could say, well,
let's consider a different possibility.
We could have put my as coreferent to he,
what's the B-cubed score then?
And the B-cubed score is 66 and so
now our Regret is larger, our Regret = 34.
So we can actually empirically
over the training data
work out what the cost of different
mistakes is in terms of B-cubed score.
So, then what we can do,
is sort of incorporate that,
so that now, the sort of,
the scaling factor over our max
margin loss function is being
taken as the difference
between the best action we
could have taken at that point.
Which may no longer be the perfect action
because we might have previously made
mistakes versus the actions
that we did choose.
So that the cost is then sort of
the regret for taking a particular action,
and that replaces the heuristic cost
we used previously, for actually
what is the actual cost of this mistake
in the context of a particular sentence?
Okay, so that was the system or
the second system that was built.
And so then this was evaluated on coref.
So most of the recent work on coreference
has used, there were these CoNLL shared
task in 2011 and 2012, the coreference.
It was, it had English and
Chinese in it and
these are scored with
the sort of CoNLL score.
The people who did the CoNLL competition,
I guess they didn't wanna take sides as to
which was the best metric for co-reference
so they came up with the CoNLL score for
co-reference, which was actually
just the arithmetic mean
of three co-reference metrics,
B-cubed and two other ones.
And so these are how things performed.
So the kind of heuristic losses
that people had used previously
actually work quite well.
So using the REINFORCE algorithm
is a smidgen better but
not really better than using
the current heuristic loss functions.
But what you could find is
that using Reward Rescaling
actually did work significantly
better because you could then
sort of actually use the real losses that
were incurred in different environments.
Now, these results and
differences may not look very impressive.
But that's partly because
even the heuristic loss
is being run on a good
neural coreference system.
So I should also show
you these other results,
just to give you a sense of things.
So this is the sort of progress
that's really been made
in coreference resolution.
So at the time of CoNLL 2012,
the best Chinese system was
this Chen & Ng which got 57 on the CoNLL
score, the best English system got 60.
There had been some work on non-neural
systems since then, so there's
a better Chinese system, and there's also
a bit better English in this system.
So the Wiseman was sort of
the first neural system,
so that was actually now
starting to do a lot better.
And then here is Kevin's two system and
it sort of starting to get some
decent gains beyond that going up.
So the neural systems actually have given
a nice new level of gain beyond
previous coreference systems.
And so I just wanted to end in the last
minute it by saying, well why is that?
So, one of the biggest gains is just
the sort of general goodness of embedding.
So, one of the places where you get the
biggest gains is what turns out to be one
the hardest cases of coreference in
practice, is when you have these common
noun nominals and
you have to realize they're coreferent.
And so that's things like
the country's leftist rebels and
the guerillas, the gun, the rifle,
216 sailors from the USS Cole,
the crew, these are the kind of ones
that are very hard to get, right.
If you're just doing conventional system
with word features and things like that.
But that's precisely the kind of place
where having our word vectors actually
does give us some purchase that these
are still hardest cases to get right.
But the other place you were getting gains
is from using this
Reward Rescaling algorithm.
And the kind of interesting thing that the
results actually turned out, is compared
to the heuristic loss function,
that using Reward Rescaling, that
the Reward Rescaling system actually made
more mistake than heuristic loss function.
But was cleverer at deciding
where to make its mistakes and so
it made mistakes that were less important.
So, even thought it made more mistakes,
overall it was able to achieve
a better B-cubed score by concentrating
on making less important mistakes.
And that reflects the fact that is for
different mistakes,
there is a wide variety
of different costs.
So this is an empirical graph of
looking at all cases of false new,
and then this is the distribution
over how much they cost You.
Even though, as you can see,
there is a clear mode to this graph.
So if you were doing
a heuristic loss you would say,
okay, customer false new is about 0.28 or
something like that.
For different situations there's
an enormous distribution as
to what the real cost
of a false new is and
that's precisely what could be
captured by the Reward Rescaling.
Okay, that's it for coreference and
then back on Thursday for
doing the dynamic memory networks.